docs: add TIP-1075 rewards rollout plan (#5488)
tempoxyz/tempo: tips/tip-1075.md

---
id: TIP-1075
title: Deprecate TIP-20 Rewards

> description: Progressively disable TIP-20 rewards across T7 and T8 while preserving settled reward claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Disable TIP-20 rewards while preserving settled reward claims.
```

> authors: TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors: Dan Robinson (@danrobinson), @0xrusowsky 
```

status: Draft
related: TIP-20, TIP-1065

> protocolVersion: T7/T8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocolVersion: T7, T8
```

---

# TIP-1075: Deprecate TIP-20 Rewards

## Abstract

> This TIP progressively deprecates TIP-20 rewards across T7 and T8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This TIP deprecates TIP-20 rewards at T7, with a rollout plan extending until T8.```

## Threat Model

This TIP relies on TIP-20 callers tolerating successful no-op behavior for deprecated reward opt-in and distribution calls. Callers that require new rewards to accrue after T7 are out of scope because new reward accrual is intentionally disabled.

> The protocol must continue to protect already-accrued reward balances. Implementations must not remove, overwrite, or migrate legacy rewards-related storage in a way that prevents holders from claiming settled rewards accrued before T7 or checkpointed before T8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol must continue to protect already-accrued reward balances. Implementations must not remove, overwrite, or migrate legacy rewards-related storage in a way that prevents holders from claiming rewards accrued before T8.
```

This TIP does not introduce a sunset period for claims.

> After T8 activation, TIP-20 transfer, `transferFrom`, mint, burn, fee-refund, and other internal balance-changing paths MUST NOT run reward update checks for ordinary balance movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After T8 activation, TIP-20 transfers, mints, burns, fee-refunds, and other internal balance-changing paths MUST NOT run reward update checks for ordinary balance movement.
```

This TIP does not reserve any special pending or in-flight reward distributions before activation.

> Settled rewards accrued before T7, plus lazy rewards checkpointed before T8, remain claimable. New distributions after T7 are no-ops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any rewards accrued and checkpointed before T8, remain claimable. New distributions after T7 are no-ops.
```

# Rollout Plan

TIP-20 rewards should be disabled through a progressive rollout across T7 and T8. The T7 implementation removes `UserState` because the TIP-1065 optimization will not be enabled in production.

At T7 activation:

- `distributeReward(uint256 amount)` and `setRewardRecipient(address recipient)` become non-reverting no-ops.
- `UserState` is removed.
- Existing reward update logic remains available only as needed to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards.
- No new reward distributions or reward-recipient changes are accepted.

> Between T7 and T8, operators should checkpoint any opted-in holders that may have unclaimed lazy rewards. A zero-value or dust transfer to each affected holder can force lazy rewards to accrue into settled reward balances. This window covers rewards distributed before T7 and any additional reward distributions that may occur before the T7 activation block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Between T7 and T8, operators should checkpoint any opted-in holders that may have unclaimed, untracked rewards. A zero-value or dust transfer to each affected holder can force lazy rewards to accrue into settled reward balances. This window covers rewards distributed before the T7 activation block.
```

At T8 activation:

> - The temporary reward tracking needed for T7-to-T8 checkpointing is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reward tracking is fully deprecated.
```

# Invariants

- After T7, `setRewardRecipient` does not change reward-recipient state, opted-in supply, or any balance.
- After T7, `distributeReward` does not change global reward-per-token, opted-in supply, reward balances, token balances, or total supply.

> - After T8, ordinary TIP-20 balance-changing paths do not perform reward update checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After T8, ordinary TIP-20 balance-changing paths do not perform reward update logic.
```
